README.md, before:

# Thorin & Dwarf Company 

[Direct link to GitHub](https://github.com/Spagettileg/thorin-and-dwarf-company)

[Direct link to live resume](https://thorin-and-dwarf-company.herokuapp.com/#)

***

![](static/img/thorin-image.jpg)

This project is designed to showcase the flask framework written in python. To keep the project interesting, the cast of The Hobbit feature in a storytelling capacity where the user experiences a 'meet & greet' environment.

Furthermore, the website serves as a fan club for avid followers of The Hobbit, where the user can register to join a community of like-minded Hobbit fans.  

## Table of Contents

1. [UXD Considerations](#uxd-considerations)
    * [User & Business Objectives](#user-&-business-objectives) 
    * [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    * [User Stories](#user-stories)
    * [CSS Framework](#css-framework)
    * [Colour Palette](#colour-palette)
    * [Typography](#typography)
    * [Icon Graphics](#icon-graphics)
    * [Navbar Design](#navbar-design)

2. [Technologies Applied](#technologies-applied)
    * [Languages](#languages)
    * [Libraries](#libraries)
    * [Tools](#tools)

3. [Features](#features)

4. [Tests](#tests)
    * [Compatibility](#compatibility)
    * [Test Observations](#test-observations)

5. [Deployment](#deployment)
    * [How to run this project locally](#how-to-run-this-project-locally) 

6. [Credits](#credits)
    * [Content](#content)
    * [Media](#media)
    * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## UXD Considerations

### User & Business Objectives

#### User

#### Business

### Wireframes
My wireframe mock-up designs have been created in [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) to showcase the 'Thorin & Dwarf Company' website responsivenesson mobile, tablet and desktop devices.

•	[Thorin & Dwarf Company](https://github.com/Spagettileg/resume/blob/master/wireframes/thorinfinal.zip)

### User Stories

### CSS Framework
Bootstrap was the chosen framework for styling my project. I used the Bootstrap grid extensively to support responsiveness on mobile, tablet and desktop devices.

### Colour Palette
Colours used in this project were sourced from [MyColor Space](https://mycolor.space/). Essentially, the colours are seeking to capture a combination of fresh and earthy tones to support the key attributes of The Hobbit. Personal growth, forms of heroism and motifs of warfare.

Colour          | Hex Code
----------------|----------
Oil Blue        | #0085A1
Deep Oil Blue   | #00657B
Raincloud Grey  | #868E96
Silver Grey     | #E9ECEF
Steel Grey      | #DEE2E6
Coal Black      | #212529 
White           | #FFF

### Typography
`H1`, `H2`, `H3`, `H4`, `H5` & `H6` header classes
[Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/), [Helvetica Neue](https://fonts.google.com/), [Helvetica](https://fonts.google.com/), [Arial](https://fonts.google.com/) & [Sans-Serif](https://fonts.google.com/) fonts were used for the header classes.

`Body` class
[Lora](https://fonts.google.com/), [Times New Roman](https://fonts.google.com/) & [Serif](https://fonts.google.com/) fonts were used throughout `body` class.

### Icon graphics
Font Awesome 5 icon graphics were used in conjunction with Bootstrap 4, primarily to support information section headers

Page           | Function                     | Font  
---------------|------------------------------|-------
TBC            | TBC                          | `tbc`


### Navbar design
For tablet and desktop views, the navbar offers 5 functions on a horizontal view. For mobile devices, all the same options collapse into a responsive design. 

- Brand Image
- Home
- About
- Contact
- Register

## Technologies Applied

### Languages
•	[HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/) used as the markup language

•	[CSS3](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/) used to style the HTML

•	[JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) used mostly for DOM manipulation. cdnjs.cloudflare.com used to animate .hover function on navigation menu elements 

### Libraries
•	[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) to provide the icon set for Re-Boot website

•	[Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) provided the fonts `Mukta` & `sans-serif` used throughout the project

•	[jQuery](https://jquery.com/) is used to manipulate the DOM, for example buttons, and showing / hiding elements

•	[Bootstrap](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) to enable ease of website responsiveness and simplify coding structure

### Tools
•	[AWS Cloud9](https://aws.amazon.com/cloud9/) a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDE) that lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser.

•	[Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) is a small graphical tool to sketch out user interfaces, for websites and web / desktop / mobile applications and used to visualise my project through mock-up design.

•	[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

•	[GitHub](https://github.com/) is a code hosting platform for version control and collaboration. It lets you and others work together on projects from anywhere.

•	[Jigsaw - CSS validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) this validator checks the markup validity of CSS style sheet and ensure coding convention is upheld

•	[JS Hint](https://jshint.com/) a tool that helps to detect errors and potential problems in the javascript code

•	[W3C - HTML validation](https://validator.w3.org/) this validator checks the markup validity of HTML web documents

## Features

**Home (index.html)**

**About (about.html)**

**Contact (contact.html)**

**Register (register.html)**

## Tests
User acceptance testing control document created in MS Excel. Key tests created to ensure
the software performs consistently on different browser platforms. Any deviation from the intended
design will be captured in the test matrix.

### Compatibility
The following browsers were used in testing the resume application. Internet Explorer was out of scope for testing due to obsolete capability

platform | version
---------|--------
Chrome   |80.0.3987.87
Edge     |44.18362.449.0
Firefox  |74.0.2
Safari   |12.4.5
Opera    |66.0.3515.72

### Test Observations
The following media queries were added to improve the project responsiveness on all tested devices.

Media Query                 | Device  | Class           | Comments
----------------------------|---------|-----------------|-------------
TBC                         | TBC     | `tbc`           | `tbc`

## Deployment

### Deployment to Heroku
The site has been formally deployed to [Heroku](https://thorin-and-dwarf-company.herokuapp.com/) and the latest version of my application can be found here. The following steps were taken in order to deploy:

#### AWS Cloud 9 IDE
- Flask debugging turned off by setting debug=False
- Requirements.txt file created with the command `sudo pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`. This is essential
- Procfile created withthe command `echo web: python run.py > Procfile`
- Push all my latest production ready code to GitHub ready for deployment via Heroku's GitHub function where you can deploy from GitHub the production ready app

#### Heroku
- From the Heroku dashboard I created a new app, using the name thorin-and-dwarf-company and set the region to Europe
- In the settings tab I clicked reveal config vars and entered the required environment variables, which in this case were:
    - Key = `IP`: Value = `0.0.0.0`
    - Key = `PORT`: Value = `5000`
    - On the deploy tab, in the Deployment method section I chose deploy from AWS Cloud 9 IDE via command `git push heroku master`

#### Local Deployment
##### Via GitHub
- Manually download the application locally to your machine and then upload to your preferred IDE
- Install the projects requirements.txt using `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
- A few environment variables need to be updated before you can run the app:
    - `import os` - We're using os module to get the 'enviroment' variable > helps connect to AWS Cloud 9 IDE
    - `import json` - Pre-requisite for importing json data into flask application
    - `from flask import Flask, render_template, request, flash` - Importing our Flask Class. Render_Template supports writing of HTML code in python file.
    - `app = Flask(__name__)`  - Flask convention (__name__) is our variable is called 'app'. Creating an instance & storing in a variable called 'app' 
    
- Once the above steps are complete you can try run the application using `python3 run.py`

##### Via the CLI
- Clone my repo via Git using the following command `https://github.com/Spagettileg/thorin-and-dwarf-company.git`
- Install the projects requirements.txt using `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
- A few environment variables need to be updated before you can run the app:
    - `import os` - We're using os module to get the 'enviroment' variable > helps connect to AWS Cloud 9 IDE
    - `import json` - Pre-requisite for importing json data into flask application
    - `from flask import Flask, render_template, request, flash` - Importing our Flask Class. Render_Template supports writing of HTML code in python file.
    - `app = Flask(__name__)`  - Flask convention (__name__) is our variable is called 'app'. Creating an instance & storing in a variable called 'app' 
- Once the above steps are complete you can try run the application using `python3 run.py` 

## Credits

### Content

### Media

- [Thorin](https://wallpaper-house.com/group/thorin-oakenshield-wallpaper/index.php) README.md image sourced from [wallpaper-house](https://wallpaper-house.com/)
- [Introduction banner image](https://live.staticflickr.com/8212/8288282995_7fe3c86f3e_b.jpg) sourced from [live.staticflickr](https://live.staticflickr.com/)


### Acknowledgements

***This website to be used for educational purposes.***

Commit message:

Content credits added to recognise use of character quuotes and source data.

README.md, after:

# Thorin & Dwarf Company 

[Direct link to GitHub](https://github.com/Spagettileg/thorin-and-dwarf-company)

[Direct link to live resume](https://thorin-and-dwarf-company.herokuapp.com/#)

***

![](static/img/thorin-image.jpg)

This project is designed to showcase the flask framework written in python. To keep the project interesting, the cast of The Hobbit feature in a storytelling capacity where the user experiences a 'meet & greet' environment.

Furthermore, the website serves as a fan club for avid followers of The Hobbit, where the user can register to join a community of like-minded Hobbit fans.  

## Table of Contents

1. [UXD Considerations](#uxd-considerations)
    * [User & Business Objectives](#user-&-business-objectives) 
    * [Wireframes](#wireframes)
    * [User Stories](#user-stories)
    * [CSS Framework](#css-framework)
    * [Colour Palette](#colour-palette)
    * [Typography](#typography)
    * [Icon Graphics](#icon-graphics)
    * [Navbar Design](#navbar-design)

2. [Technologies Applied](#technologies-applied)
    * [Languages](#languages)
    * [Libraries](#libraries)
    * [Tools](#tools)

3. [Features](#features)

4. [Tests](#tests)
    * [Compatibility](#compatibility)
    * [Test Observations](#test-observations)

5. [Deployment](#deployment)
    * [How to run this project locally](#how-to-run-this-project-locally) 

6. [Credits](#credits)
    * [Content](#content)
    * [Media](#media)
    * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## UXD Considerations

### User & Business Objectives

#### User

#### Business

### Wireframes
My wireframe mock-up designs have been created in [Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) to showcase the 'Thorin & Dwarf Company' website responsivenesson mobile, tablet and desktop devices.

•	[Thorin & Dwarf Company](https://github.com/Spagettileg/resume/blob/master/wireframes/thorinfinal.zip)

### User Stories

### CSS Framework
Bootstrap was the chosen framework for styling my project. I used the Bootstrap grid extensively to support responsiveness on mobile, tablet and desktop devices.

### Colour Palette
Colours used in this project were sourced from [MyColor Space](https://mycolor.space/). Essentially, the colours are seeking to capture a combination of fresh and earthy tones to support the key attributes of The Hobbit. Personal growth, forms of heroism and motifs of warfare.

Colour          | Hex Code
----------------|----------
Oil Blue        | #0085A1
Deep Oil Blue   | #00657B
Raincloud Grey  | #868E96
Silver Grey     | #E9ECEF
Steel Grey      | #DEE2E6
Coal Black      | #212529 
White           | #FFF

### Typography
`H1`, `H2`, `H3`, `H4`, `H5` & `H6` header classes
[Open Sans](https://fonts.google.com/), [Helvetica Neue](https://fonts.google.com/), [Helvetica](https://fonts.google.com/), [Arial](https://fonts.google.com/) & [Sans-Serif](https://fonts.google.com/) fonts were used for the header classes.

`Body` class
[Lora](https://fonts.google.com/), [Times New Roman](https://fonts.google.com/) & [Serif](https://fonts.google.com/) fonts were used throughout `body` class.

### Icon graphics
Font Awesome 5 icon graphics were used in conjunction with Bootstrap 4, primarily to support information section headers

Page           | Function                     | Font  
---------------|------------------------------|-------
TBC            | TBC                          | `tbc`


### Navbar design
For tablet and desktop views, the navbar offers 5 functions on a horizontal view. For mobile devices, all the same options collapse into a responsive design. 

- Brand Image
- Home
- About
- Contact
- Register

## Technologies Applied

### Languages
•	[HTML](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/) used as the markup language

•	[CSS3](https://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/) used to style the HTML

•	[JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) used mostly for DOM manipulation. cdnjs.cloudflare.com used to animate .hover function on navigation menu elements 

### Libraries
•	[Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) to provide the icon set for Re-Boot website

•	[Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) provided the fonts `Mukta` & `sans-serif` used throughout the project

•	[jQuery](https://jquery.com/) is used to manipulate the DOM, for example buttons, and showing / hiding elements

•	[Bootstrap](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) to enable ease of website responsiveness and simplify coding structure

### Tools
•	[AWS Cloud9](https://aws.amazon.com/cloud9/) a cloud-based integrated development environment (IDE) that lets you write, run, and debug your code with just a browser.

•	[Balsamiq](https://balsamiq.com/) is a small graphical tool to sketch out user interfaces, for websites and web / desktop / mobile applications and used to visualise my project through mock-up design.

•	[Git](https://git-scm.com/) is a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.

•	[GitHub](https://github.com/) is a code hosting platform for version control and collaboration. It lets you and others work together on projects from anywhere.

•	[Jigsaw - CSS validation](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) this validator checks the markup validity of CSS style sheet and ensure coding convention is upheld

•	[JS Hint](https://jshint.com/) a tool that helps to detect errors and potential problems in the javascript code

•	[W3C - HTML validation](https://validator.w3.org/) this validator checks the markup validity of HTML web documents

## Features

**Home (index.html)**

**About (about.html)**

**Contact (contact.html)**

**Register (register.html)**

## Tests
User acceptance testing control document created in MS Excel. Key tests created to ensure
the software performs consistently on different browser platforms. Any deviation from the intended
design will be captured in the test matrix.

### Compatibility
The following browsers were used in testing the resume application. Internet Explorer was out of scope for testing due to obsolete capability

platform | version
---------|--------
Chrome   |80.0.3987.87
Edge     |44.18362.449.0
Firefox  |74.0.2
Safari   |12.4.5
Opera    |66.0.3515.72

### Test Observations
The following media queries were added to improve the project responsiveness on all tested devices.

Media Query                 | Device  | Class           | Comments
----------------------------|---------|-----------------|-------------
TBC                         | TBC     | `tbc`           | `tbc`

## Deployment

### Deployment to Heroku
The site has been formally deployed to [Heroku](https://thorin-and-dwarf-company.herokuapp.com/) and the latest version of my application can be found here. The following steps were taken in order to deploy:

#### AWS Cloud 9 IDE
- Flask debugging turned off by setting debug=False
- Requirements.txt file created with the command `sudo pip3 freeze --local > requirements.txt`. This is essential
- Procfile created withthe command `echo web: python run.py > Procfile`
- Push all my latest production ready code to GitHub ready for deployment via Heroku's GitHub function where you can deploy from GitHub the production ready app

#### Heroku
- From the Heroku dashboard I created a new app, using the name thorin-and-dwarf-company and set the region to Europe
- In the settings tab I clicked reveal config vars and entered the required environment variables, which in this case were:
    - Key = `IP`: Value = `0.0.0.0`
    - Key = `PORT`: Value = `5000`
    - On the deploy tab, in the Deployment method section I chose deploy from AWS Cloud 9 IDE via command `git push heroku master`

#### Local Deployment
##### Via GitHub
- Manually download the application locally to your machine and then upload to your preferred IDE
- Install the projects requirements.txt using `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
- A few environment variables need to be updated before you can run the app:
    - `import os` - We're using os module to get the 'enviroment' variable > helps connect to AWS Cloud 9 IDE
    - `import json` - Pre-requisite for importing json data into flask application
    - `from flask import Flask, render_template, request, flash` - Importing our Flask Class. Render_Template supports writing of HTML code in python file.
    - `app = Flask(__name__)`  - Flask convention (__name__) is our variable is called 'app'. Creating an instance & storing in a variable called 'app' 
    
- Once the above steps are complete you can try run the application using `python3 run.py`

##### Via the CLI
- Clone my repo via Git using the following command `https://github.com/Spagettileg/thorin-and-dwarf-company.git`
- Install the projects requirements.txt using `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
- A few environment variables need to be updated before you can run the app:
    - `import os` - We're using os module to get the 'enviroment' variable > helps connect to AWS Cloud 9 IDE
    - `import json` - Pre-requisite for importing json data into flask application
    - `from flask import Flask, render_template, request, flash` - Importing our Flask Class. Render_Template supports writing of HTML code in python file.
    - `app = Flask(__name__)`  - Flask convention (__name__) is our variable is called 'app'. Creating an instance & storing in a variable called 'app' 
- Once the above steps are complete you can try run the application using `python3 run.py` 

## Credits

### Content

- [Gandalf](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/tag/gandalf#:~:text=%E2%80%9CI%20will%20not%20say%3A%20do,all%20tears%20are%20an%20evil.%E2%80%9D&text=%E2%80%9CMany%20that%20live%20deserve%20death.) quote sourced from **Good Reads**
- [Gandalf](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandalf) character information sourced from wikipedia 
- [Balin](https://www.thecharacterquotes.com/balin) quote sourced from **The Character Quotes**
- [Balin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Balin_(Middle-earth)) character information sourced from wikipedia 
- [Thorin Oakenshield](https://bookroo.com/quotes/thorin-oakenshield) quote sourced from **bookroo**
- [Thorin Oakenshield](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thorin_Oakenshield) character information sourced from wikipedia 
- [Bilbo Baggins](http://lotrproject.com/quotes/character/bilbo) quote sourced from **LOTR Project**
- [Bilbo Baggins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bilbo_Baggins) character information sourced from wikipedia 

### Media

- [Thorin](https://wallpaper-house.com/group/thorin-oakenshield-wallpaper/index.php) README.md image sourced from [wallpaper-house](https://wallpaper-house.com/)
- [Introduction banner image](https://live.staticflickr.com/8212/8288282995_7fe3c86f3e_b.jpg) sourced from [live.staticflickr](https://live.staticflickr.com/)


### Acknowledgements

***This website to be used for educational purposes.***
